# Chess

This was my first 'large' project in java with only one real coding class under my belt.

This game of chess has all the features of a normal chess board except Check and Checkmate. I was unable to find a way to have checkmate run quickly, this is mainly due to the poor way that I set up the initial project, however check does work. Despite the poor setup, en passant and castling are available in this verison of chess. The way the game works is by displaying the available moves on the chess board and then checking to see if the move available. If the move is available, the game removes the icon from the previous spot and removes the location and name from a hashmap, updating the board and hashmap with the new location. The chess board is not based off of chess notation because before starting this project, I had no idea how chess was setup or how chess was played. With that in mind, the board is setup with each square having an integer value from 0-63, with 0 being the top left and 63 being the bottom right. This means that when checking and comparing pieces, instead of chess notation, you'll see integer values throught the code, mainly stored in a variable called location. 

Each piece has it's own class with a move function, however the move function is more of a display function. This is because the move function displays the moves that are available to the selected piece, showing a yellow 'a' for when the move is available and a red 'a' for when there's a piece in the way. The red 'a' also stops the pieces display of moves from traveling any further. For the pawn, a red 'b' is shown any time there is a piece directly in front of the pawn. The pawn will also display a red 'a' any time the pawn can take another piece, this includes en passant. The king has the ability to move into any position displayed on the board, except if that location is under threat. However, if the king is taken, the game will stop and the actionlisteners will be disabled.

Before, the BuildChess class had the implementation of setting up the chess board, drawing the chess board, and displaying how each piece moved throughout the game. I split this class into four classes, with the draw class handling the drawing of the board and the move class handling the visual display of the pieces moving on the board, pieceSetup sets up the pieces in the correct locations and pieceFunctionality is where the brain of chess goes, calling the move classes different types of move options.

The move functions in each piece class are different from the move class (I thought of some of these changes when I was on a vacation and completely forgot about the move functions). The move class is what shows the chess pieces actually moving on the board. The move class has three 'main' functions, empty, contains, and grab. Each of these functions does exactly what you'd expect them to, grab grabs the piece, empty is for when a piece wants to move to an empty tile and contains is for when the piece wants to move to a tile that does have a piece. The move class is helped with the HelperFunctions class as the HelperFunctions classes contains the functions that the move class used the most. Why make a seperate class for some functions that could've been placed within the move class? This is cause I wasn't thinking about that and I have some other classes using functions from the HelperFunctions class.

I also added the interface setupVars to help consolidate variables that were being used in multiple class in which each class re-instantiated the variable each time. Using an interface for this is probably wrong but I don't really understand how interfaces work.

There is a universal pawn class that is used whenever a pawn reaches the opposing sides border. This class will create a new JFrame according to the color of the pawn and send the result back to the board to update the pawn. This frame will update the pawn to one of the four choices that the pawn has when transforming (rook, queen, knight, bishop). Likewise, the rook, bishop, and queen all share a abstract parent class that provides the moves available for the pieces. This allows each the rook and bishop to only have to call one function from their parent while the queen calls both functions.

If anyone actually sees this and decides to comb through the code, feel free to make fun of it, because it is hideous. 
